Section 2.1:

1. Which layers are used for the sections of the supply rings:

   Bottom layer is gnd and top layer is vdd.  Metal1 and Metal2.

2. What are the widths of the supply ring bars and their spacing?

   Supply bar rings are 9.9 units wide.  They are spaced a 9.9 units apart.

3. What is the spacing between the inner supply ring and the core area, and which prior command controls this?

   Spacing is 150, and the floorplan command controlled this.

Section 2.2:

1. How did the layout change after running the "place_cells.tcl" script?

   Cells were placed onto the layout in a semi-random fashion.

2. What is a rough estimate of the core utilization based on the cells?

   Looking at the layout, it looks like about 50% of the core is covered by cells.

3. How did the layout change after running the "sroute" command?

   Lines were drawn across the layout to connect the cells to the power and ground supplies

4. In what ways are the three metal layers typically used in the routing?

   Blue metal1 layer is used for power and ground supply.  Red metal2 layer is used for vertical routing.  Green metal3 layer is used for horizontal routing.

5. What percentage of the core appears to be filled with cells after running "final_route.tcl"? And which command do you think primarily resulted in the change?

  It looks like about 100% of the cell is now covered with cells.  Anything not covered is filled in with filler cells.  The add filler cells command probably caused this increase.

Section 3:

1. What are the starting and ending gate/cell level components of the critical path?

   They appear to be registers.  waddr_reg[1] is start and end is fiforeg_reg[4][1]

2. How many combinational logic cells are in between?

   There are 7 combinational logic cells in between.

3. What are the starting and ending blocks (design modules) of the critical path?

   UWFC and UFIFORAM

4. Is the synthesis critical path similar to the layout one, and what are their respective delays?

   The synthesis critical path looks longer and more complicated than the layout path.  The synthesis path has a delay of 4.61 and the layout path has a delay of 4.371.

Section 4:

In innovus you can click the pads and see their connections.  You can look at the generated mapped verilog file and pads are on the very bottom. Can see what signals and modules are connected.  So then you can move around the pads to get them closer to what they are connected to.

U1/U2 and U7 are connected to the same upper-left region of the chip, but are on opposite sides are not close to where they are connected to.  Maybe move these closer together? - DONE

Pads U8-U16 and U3/U4 control FIFO stuff, which is where data is housed before loading into the USB-size's shift register.  These should be collected more towards the upper right of the chip.

1. Reduced negative slack after IO-frame adjustment?

   Before adjustment: Total Negative Slack (TNS): -59.3030.
   After adjustment of U1/U2 and U7, TNS: -29.0340

2. What change(s) were made and why do you think they resulted in the reduction?

   Moving U16 closer to the U3 and U4 reduced the FIFO slack.
